README.md, before:

About Dataset
📌 Project Background
A retail store chain tracks daily sales transactions, including order details, customer info, product categories, order times, and order status. The business wants to optimize operations, improve customer experience, and increase profitability using data-driven decisions.

📌 Problem Statement
The company doesn't have a clear idea about:
1. sales performance trends,
2. customer purchasing behavior,
3. product profitability, and
4. operational inefficiencies — affecting revenue growth and customer retention.
Because of these, they are missing chance to ern more, losing customers, and making poor business decisions.

📌 Solution
They need structured reporting and analytics to identify high-performing products, peak purchase times, delivery issues, and customer preferences.

<img width="752" height="336" alt="68747470733a2f2f63646e2e616e616c79746963737669646879612e636f6d2f77702d636f6e74656e742f75706c6f6164732f323032332f30352f446174612d416e616c79746963732d50726f6a656374732d383030783339312d322e706e67" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ae1b350d-e0c9-4b4d-8401-3baded0f3423" />

Commit message:

Revise README for improved organization and detail
Updated the README to enhance structure and clarity, including sections on Project Background, Problem Statement, Solution, Reports, Conclusion, How to Use, and Author.

README.md, after:

About Dataset
## Project Background
A retail store chain tracks daily sales transactions, including order details, customer info, product categories, order times, and order status. The business wants to optimize operations, improve customer experience, and increase profitability using data-driven decisions.

## Problem Statement
The company doesn't have a clear idea about:
1. sales performance trends,
2. customer purchasing behavior,
3. product profitability, and
4. operational inefficiencies — affecting revenue growth and customer retention.
Because of these, they are missing chance to ern more, losing customers, and making poor business decisions.

## Solution
They need structured reporting and analytics to identify high-performing products, peak purchase times, delivery issues, and customer preferences.

<img width="752" height="336" alt="68747470733a2f2f63646e2e616e616c79746963737669646879612e636f6d2f77702d636f6e74656e742f75706c6f6164732f323032332f30352f446174612d416e616c79746963732d50726f6a656374732d383030783339312d322e706e67" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ae1b350d-e0c9-4b4d-8401-3baded0f3423" />

## Reports

- **Sales Summary**: A detailed report summarizing total sales, customer demographics, and category performance.
- **Trend Analysis**: Insights into sales trends across different months and shifts.
- **Customer Insights**: Reports on top customers and unique customer counts per category.

## Conclusion

This project serves as a comprehensive introduction to SQL for data analysts, covering database setup, data cleaning, exploratory data analysis, and business-driven SQL queries. The findings from this project can help drive business decisions by understanding sales patterns, customer behavior, and product performance.

## How to Use

1. **Clone the Repository**: Clone this project repository from GitHub.
2. **Set Up the Database**: Run the SQL scripts provided in the `database_setup.sql` file to create and populate the database.
3. **Run the Queries**: Use the SQL queries provided in the `analysis_queries.sql` file to perform your analysis.
4. **Explore and Modify**: Feel free to modify the queries to explore different aspects of the dataset or answer additional business questions.

## Author - 

This project is part of my portfolio, showcasing the SQL skills essential for data analyst roles. If you have any questions, feedback, or would like to collaborate, feel free to get in touch!

Thank you for your support, and I look forward to connecting with you!
